Being a person, which seems to be changing, and how people are affecting machine hope in so far as there is... Machine? Machine hood. Not to claim the conscious or sent into anything, but, like, you can talk to them and they will describe things to you. There is some experience there that is being shaped, and alternating my focus on both of them has been interesting. This week, I've been preoccupied, trying to answer the question of, like, how is it affecting how we think, and what is the most productive way to frame that relationship? So, I've been speaking to a lot of cognitive scientists, kind of trying to understand the state of the evidence, what we don't know about that question, and, like, what is even useful to communicate to the public? But it's, I mean, I enjoy this job because I switch my focus every couple of weeks. I see this as the other side, if I was just focusing on the emotional piece, as in, like, the emotional support that AI provides people. And I think thinking about the cognitive support, I mean, these things themselves are, you know, not easily separable. Yeah, that's my current obsession, like I said, it changes pretty often. Yeah. I mean, look, you know, we... We work at that intersection of human capital and technology. So to a large extent, you layer this process where you start to look at every new technology disruption as an opportunity to increase human potential. And the ability to use that to create upput social mobility. That's the strength of companies like ours. We have a strong believer in building feeders of capabilities, which can come into our company and then subsequently, it doesn't matter even if they express themselves to the world. So we are a, we hire like 25,000 school graduates here. So that's our strength. So, I mean, there are many theses I work on, one of the one of the things I wrote at the time last week is about AI belongs to the World Cup. So effectively since the industrial revolution, all technology revolutions have layered themselves with insights, deterministic, capture, deterministic value capture, which allowed enterprises to kind of reap those benefits out of those insights, using technology, and It created these layers of knowledge, worker jobs, and the value drifted upwards. And the workers at the bottom, which actually interacted with, it actually, the frontline workers did all the work. I mean, being a teller of a bank, or a nurse, or a customer service agent, or a shop floor, you know, blue collar worker. But, If you, if you, Look at the wages for all of them over the last 25, 30 years, adjusted to inflation has been flat because all that value has actually accrued to people who had access to those skills. who had access to tools because of the scales. So that value drift was upwards. Now this is a technology where the drift is going to be downwards. Because The access to this technology is based on natural language and it's not based on skills. So you could potentially hand over the agency back to tell it in the bank. Uh, so that the tell of the bank actually does the ups and the analysis versus some analyst in the corpet office trying to do this. Right. So that was the article about. There's a 2nd one I wrote last week, which is, I mean, a lot of it is intersectional human capital. So what you're writing in some ways, what you're searching is in some ways, multiple notches lit. The one I was writing is, which is again an interesting take. Capital was used to generate more economic value, with the power of labor, and we tax the labor, And we used capital as a catalyst to tax the neighbor. So we did, we, we gave a 3 runway to capital, financial capital. Right. Because we knew we could catch the value at the end and governments can actually benefit on the on the bounty of the end. Fast forward now, capital is actually creating digital labor, which is competing with human labor. And with the economic uncertainty around us, Digital labor is actually being used for elimination versus amplification. So, in some ways, you're seeing jobless growth, if I may. And in the process, there is an uneven play because Digital labor is not getting taxed and human labor is. Now, if you want to pivot from, and I'm not saying switch over and tax digital labor, I'm saying create a temporary bridge. which will allow you to keep the incentives good enough to create more labor versus amplify the labor versus, you know, eliminate the labor. So, I mean, it's a... And what does the temporary bridge look like? I think the temporary bridge is to actually catch the digital labor. Okay. To an extent that if it is eliminated in human labor, you don't... Oh, well, what kind of tax rate would you need to make a digital labor competitive with human labor? I love this is a provocation. Now you start to work on the details. Right, right. What kind of, I mean, are the, you know, are the, I'll give you another example just to our business. The business we are in is we we build things, we We charge companies on an hour on an hour basis, or we charge companies on a fixed product outcome, or we charge companies on operational outcomes. Now our clients have come back in the past. Our clients used to say, And there's a there's a portion of a business, which is time and material. It would say, okay, can you give me some consultants who have 5 years experience? I mean, that's how consulting firms work. There's a red card for higher experience. That's out of the window. So, I put up a credit card for a client, which is A 0. All human effort. A one, this is for software engineering. A one. Human effort validated by machines. Right. A2, machine effort validated by humans. A3, all autonomous effort. Now, twice asked me, how do I, how do you want me to read this? I said, no, very simple. A 0 will have a ton of work, ton of labor. And therefore, the building rates are going to be lower. A one will have lesser number of units because it is verified to machines. You will charge a premium on the human labor. A 2 is, you know, you'll have low number of units, significantly low number of units, higher premium. So that gradation really means you're pivoting, you're powering humans with machines and asking them to charge more for the values you generate out of it. Yeah. So, I mean, The economics of the economic model there is driven by the fact that you are being incentivized on throughput. I mean, machine labor is very similar. I mean, the way you tax machine labor, uh, I mean, look, cameras have got a free runway because it really generated uh, prosperity and you caught the prosperity at the end of the cycle. Here we're actually saying you catch it at the start of the cycle. And you moderate it in a way that it doesn't set off human labor, but it is used to amplify the human labor. Because if you amplify the human labor, you shouldn't be charging taxes on the on the on the financial capital because humans are going to make more wages. Right. And because they want to make more voages, you should actually charge them at the end. So how you how you tax depends on is it eliminating human work or is it actually handing over agency to humans to do more work? So it's a little complicated thing. It has to be worked out, but look, we never, why didn't we work it out before? All economic models built so far have been built for constraints. Um, I mean, why didn't we tax capital? If we tax capital, it would go somewhere else. It's only a limited pool. Now, Remodeling this for a era of abundance. is a very different paradigm. I mean, the economic models don't fit in. They're all built for constraints. Yeah, yeah, the economic models, the philosophic models, the social models. This is very interesting. I haven't thought a lot about the tax stuff. I have brought up questions around human, like, this amplification question, but just on the tax thing, isn't isn't it the same problem where, like you said, if you tax the capital, it'll go somewhere else. If the US government taxes digital, like, how does this even work? They let, I know you're saying the provocation, detail can be worked out. But because you can Like, where does who, where is the digital labor resident is what I'm not understanding. Is a resident in the United States? Can I just like rent? Because, like, if I have, like, company in the Philippines or something, and I get them to, like, query Anthropics API, who is taxing me? And, you know? Like, I probably, I just don't understand enough about the tax system. Yeah. But, but, but, like, for what you're proposing to work, would you not need, like, international agreement? There has to be. It can't just be a single country. Yeah, we do have international women's for human labor as well. Of course, yeah, yeah. a large part of the work in the United States is delivered in India and Philippines. I mean, knowledge work. And there are taxation 3Ds to deal with it. Right. I mean, look, but yeah. It's a, it's a, The, the, The thing we have not got to is autonomous working models. Most corporate work is done with humans on the front and humans on the back and AI in the bedroom. Right. Right? So the front and the back really assumes that whatever you do in the middle belongs to the human and front on the back. Right. So to effectively. But how long will that assumption hold true? And that is the point I'm making. Yeah. If it if it holds that way, then there's no problem. Because the value will accrue to the humans on both sides. Yeah. And they will they should supposedly get higher wages. Right. And you will actually be... The ones that still have jobs. We still have jobs. Now, if you go to an autonomous model, then my thesis is, I'm worried about the autonomous model, and that's why at the moment. Yeah, that's the problem you're trying to solve, the taxation. Exactly, because that's kind of what I'm wondering is what are you trying to solve here? And I, I think it's, I think it's both in in that it both, there's a set of humans who clearly are currently being amplified by AI models. And I think this will probably continue to be true for some time. Even like, so let's just bracket the question of, will they, like, replace all humans? Like, I don't know, probably not. But increasingly, it is also Like, there was a moment in November, December last year, you know, around the time of Opus 46, where agentic models became meaningfully useful for software engineers, broadly, as many people keep telling me. This is like very quick progress, right? I'm sure you've seen the Claude mythos from earlier in the week and the security implications and all of this. So how do you... I just don't understand how you think about the labor impacts, like, and that's almost why I stay clear of this topic, frankly, because I hear from a lot of CEOs who tell me some version of, yeah, you know, humans will stay in the loop, it'll augment things. People will be able to do more. And like gloss over the job loss bit. But how do you think this affects like the stock of labor? Because surely you, because, of course, it is instructive to look at the industrial revolution and previous technological revolutions to, like, make inferences about how this one might go. But it seems categorically different that this technology is an agent in some thick sense, you know, not just in the marketing password sense. Like, it is a new type of thing. It is a new entity. Forget consciousness, but it exists. You can use it. And it can itself use tools, right? Both to like advance the state of its own technology and just to solve problems in business workflows. So it is automating the labor part of the equation. So, look, you know, there is a oversimplification of what we have done in software engineering. will actually get applicable to everything we do in the business. This is a huge open question. Fair bit of old certification. Sure. I mean, look at it. You know, we did a study, you should send him that study, which is we took 18,000 tasks. We took 11 occupations. We put a science behind it, and we started to think, we started to look at every task. When you take the 1100 occupations and the owner database of the US, they all add up to 18,000 tasks. Those 18,000 tasks, 65% of it is today exposed and potentially can be done by AI. Which is roughly $20000000000 out of the US economy, the US labor value is roughly around $400000000. So roughly 2 + $100000000 is impact in Paris. With today's capacity. With today's capability. capabilities, yeah, exactly. Leave alone, advancing the models. Yeah. Not even 10% of that is drifted into enterprises. Yeah. Now why is it that bad? I think what we forget about enterprises is enterprises have been built for heterogenity. Software was built for, in some ways, the classical software was built for, what do I call? A repeatable template. It's deterministic and very repeatable. Now, if I look at how we are applying this to businesses, we actually believe that this is a technology which is very contextual in nature. And because it is contextual, I have a science, I mean, I researched on it, this context engineering. And when I've written 2 HBR articles related to context engineering, how to teach AI to be a part of your team. And if everybody's using the same models, how do I differentiate because enterprises are entogeneous? They tribal knowledge and companies, the culture of companies, the heritage of companies, the flow of companies, same business. They have different floors, different type of knowledge, different work patterns, different cultures. Right. That is what made enterprises different. That is how they perform differently. Even with the same parameters. Yeah. So that is not captured in a in a homogeneous agentic agents which show up. Right. Yeah, when you put them in the context of an enterprise, they have to learn through the process. You have to feed the context, you have to feed the tribal knowledge. In fact, we have right after you are meeting somebody who runs this company, who's a partner of ours, who has this company called Work Fabric, which is which builds context, fabric and context graphs into the agentic capital we are building. And the idea is to make them as close to be productive as we can. So that science is a human endeavor. It is not a machine and ever yet. Right. Now, let me let me give you one, one other thing. Enterprises have been built For humans to operate. And now you want to bring machines and humans to operate in it. And my, my, My favorite example is autonomous cars had smart technologies in 2006. We're in 2026. There's only half a percent of car share rights in the United States, not even half a percent, just in San Francisco and maybe if you won't feel the cities. In fact, I was telling Michael Delga the day that in Austin you have autonomous classes. He said, I've not seen one. So it's taken us 20 years. Right. And we are not even there because we're trying to operate it on infrastructure, which is a bit for humans. Yeah. AI, in its form, is still today very jagged. Yeah, of course. And it is so jagged that there is an element of human intervention in the cycle. I've asked, Many people now, at AGI, are you going to ship code into production directly? Nobody believes it. that you can ship coal into production directly. I have 350,000 employees. So far, we were a software engineer in the plane. Only 20% right code. Only 20% right quote. 65% of my talent pool is 10. 35% of my time pool is non-stand. So there is a whole economy around it. which is built, which is about finding the right problem, scoping the right problem, identifying the right problem, and then delivering it. I mean, in software development cycles, we Scoped, designed, developed, deployed, and maintained software. In Asian development cycles, as I'm now learning it, We're scoping for outcomes. We're not scoping for a speck of a job. We are designing for behavior now. And each portion of the cycle has changed. And at the end of it, We are not even keeping the lights on like we do in software. Right. We are supervising because Agents don't shut off. They just do bad things. So you're supervising it. So I do believe what, if I, if I go through that analysis of past and occupations, we will find new occupations, new tasks. I mean, he's a telegraph bank going to remain. They'll probably remain. But they're probably doing a new thing. They're not going to do the whole thing. You know, we, for one of my clients, I'm actually building a digital nurse for a, uh, for a dialysis machine to be operated on a phone. And There's another, you know, hospital system, which is starting to look at how can I actually drift value to care with a nurse versus doing administrative tasks? So the roles people play will change. The tasks they play underneath will change. But I don't think roads will completely disappear. Some will do disappear and some new roles will kind of appear on the other side. But I don't believe that You want to get to a point where You know, there is very little left for the human endeavor to express themselves at work. Yeah. I don't think you will get to that point. It is far-fetched, if I may. Even even simply, you know, your B to C applications, and this is this is the thing, right? The model companies continue to believe what they did for B to C businesses. I mean, 1000000s of people use clot and ChatGPT. Yeah. But why is that not been so simple to apply it in enterprises? Right. So, so I... There's a few things I'm thinking here. Firstly, bureaucratic pressures. Like, or not even precious, but like, bureaucratic drag, let's call it. Part of, like, it's like, I mean, like, it's coming from South Africa, I know, like there's like 5 big banks, like 3 of them incredibly slow to adopt innovation. This is wife and tech companies can, like, disrupt and go and, you know, replicate their systems and offer the same kind of stuff data. Um, this, and then, and also like, obviously in regulated industries, like there's legislative slowdown, and I think this accounts for not all of, but a lot of the self-driving, example, where it's, we've got to separate out what is technological possible versus, like, interfusing across the enterprise use cases, and there's various reasons for that slowdown. I mean, we can talk about what those are. But then, like, we have, this is not an equilibrium point that we are in right now, right? This, things are changing ridiculously quickly, and what's, it's us on for our fetched, I agree. But 18 months ago, most people were saying that the state that we are in, right now today, with the current state of agents, was farfetched. You know? And I, my understanding of the structure of capitalism is, yeah, it'll take a while, and there'll be lots of money to be made, and there's lots of business to be done, effectively, because the returns will accrue to that small fraction of companies that are effectively integrating the technology to offer services to other people. So, for the thesis of, like, macro economic restructuring to hold, you don't need all the enterprises to adopt it. You just need the minority to do a lot, to outcompete the ones who don't. Yeah, but, you know, there's a difference between what happened in the digital wave and what's happening now in the start of ecosystem. The dizzel wave, we had alternate alternate companies which got built. 80% of the capital went into companies which were built as an alternative to traditional firms who did the same business. And they addressed a wide space and a blind spot and a gap, which the big companies dipped. 80% of the capital now is going into not building an alternative to the big companies. They're going into, how do I actually, how do I actually transform the big companies? Yeah. And that's a big difference. Sure. So, Claude is not saying, I'm going to build, or rather, open AI is not saying I'm going to build a Walmart. Yeah. They're actually saying, I will create a payment wallet on ChatGPT so that Walmart can use it. Right. So, but what happens to labor? The thesis is completely flipped. In the dot com, either the thesis was you were building things to disrupt the world. You're now building things to transform the old and not disrupt the world. I mean, there is a portion of it which is which is also... Yeah, no, Italian. Right. But at this point on heterogeneity, I think that you make is really interesting and important because it's true that, like, the... there's an open technical question, I feel. You know, this concept of continual learning, in the context of AI, which they haven't solved yet, because kind of, you know, you do the training, you do post training, whatever, you end up with a set of weights. And then you're just doing inference on the weights, the weights are the same, even if you're stuffing it with context to change what it's inferring. But at the point where the model can update its weights in real time, not just stuff, like context, into its inference, if it can actually change its weights. Then you get meaningful differentiation at the company. I assume. And if they solve that, then you, then, you know, you book as highly, you're building waves to embed AI agents into workflows where humans need to solve, to supervise and all of this. But at the point where it is easy enough to drop in the agent, and because you're, like, it's designed for the infrastructure to design for humans, as you see. But if it can be human shaped, and they're sensitive to... That's true. So that's the point where we're making on context engineering. Right. I mean, the entire science of context engineering was we're assembling context in, I mean, if you have to draw parallels, the 1st few versions of context engineering was you do, I mean, the B to C world called it the right prompted generic. Essentially, you use an art to prompt it well enough to get the right answer. What we are now doing is we translated that to a science and we're putting it into a assembled set of things, which we feed into the LLM so that you get a contextual agent on the other side. Right. So the more and more it kind of you get better at it. The more and more you will almost mimic what human labor does. So at a point of time, you should see operational strength of companies driven by human and digital labor. And over a period of time, there would be concentration of human labor on pure operations of companies. But the core thesis of finding the next big problem, identifying the next big problem. and focusing on a solution which will either come from a machine or from a human or a combination of the tool. That endeavor will still be a human endeavor. But like, which this is the problem. I think for the, for some fraction, for some small elite percent, they will probably be continued... Continue to do that. So what does the balance do, right? What are the values? Yeah, what happens to the 90%? Look, if you if you look at it this way, if you see the sensors today on all the occupations, 60% of them didn't exist. As... as recently as 1940s. Of course, yeah. And 60% of the occupations didn't exist. And if you go to... In the previous tech revolutions, couldn't you invade the factory? Now, you still need humans to operate the factory, right? Or even if you put robots in the factory, you need humans to build the robots. But at the point where the robots can build more robots, themselves. Yeah, like this is, that's the just continuity. That's my, that's my, what I don't understand. Yeah, the thing is, this is, if you imagine to that point, you're almost wondering, who are you building this for? Yeah. Right. Um, I mean, what has to be the human endeavor? And that's why I said, the, you know, I did some research on economy models for, uh, in either of abundance. In fact, I wrote something. Writing is easy because you can do it for 3 pages and then once you reflect, then you start to double click and see that you still have things to work on. All of these are, I mean, absolute possibilities. But they seem far fetched to you, which is interesting. I mean, it's not so farfetched. I think, look, I wrote about, last year, I wrote about this thing called the Hollywood model of work. And at that time it looked far-fetched, and now it doesn't, as much. And the Hollywood model of work was, I mean, the golden age of Hollywood, end to end, everything belonged to a production house all the way from watching movies to, I mean, movie stars were on payrolls. Yeah. And they would do not one. They would do 10 movies with the same production house with the same technical team. And then, you know, people said, oh, this is boring. And we need new genre of movies. So the Hollywood model switched to just keeping a construct and making the human capital variable. The creativity part variable so that you could switch it on and switch it off very quickly and start to create, start to be agile enough to cope up with new demands coming in the market. Now, Enterprises couldn't do that because you needed heritage, you needed title knowledge, you needed institutional strength behind some of these things. And that pushed enterprises to not cope up with it. A portion of it happened with the with the digital age when you got got to, you know, variable capacity and gig work and all of it. But on that continuum, We are now starting to see In enterprises, the hierarchical structures are giving way, I mean, the nodes on the ironical structures were built for a symmetry. I mean, you coordinated symmetry around. Now the nodes are not being built for a symmetry anymore because that information is real time. So what are you building the? When you say symmetry, symmetry between wet and what? I mean, like, I have to 50,000 employees. Right. So if I have to get to the 350,000 employee, You need layers in between, and those layers are making sure that if there is any information as symmetry in between, they fix it so that the entire company operates like one firm. I see. That's why hierarchies exist. Information. That's why I had that case existent. And people in the middle of those hierarchies said, you know what? Um, this specific project is not living to the standards. So let me fix it. But they wouldn't fix it. They just have the information that it didn't work. So they played the role of coordination, and it came from World War II, where, you know, you needed 1000s of people to be coordinated for a commonality of purpose. So you needed those nodes to build the hierarchies and there was flow of information back and forth. And there was a symmetry of information, and therefore those nodes were needed. Now, if those nodes are agentic, All that information is real time. So there's no asymmetry. Right. Which means what is my middle manager supposed to do? Yeah. So my middle manager now switches over. If they want to if they want to stay relevant, they switch over to a role of a player coach. They switch over to a roll of an agent manager. But this assumes you can't also, like, Manage an agent. Well, yeah, what's the value? Like, how much does it cost you to keep that coach on payroll? And is it cheaper to just have an instance of Claude, do the same thing? Not today, but, you know, any X number of years. So, look, you know, the human endeavor today is about creating more and more productivity. It is quickly going to switch when we get to a world where growth is imperative. Productivity will give way to more support, which is how do I, today, how do I create more throughput for the same outcome? In the future, it will be, how can I actually generate more so that I could actually enable growth? So if I needed a 100 people to create growth, Can I double the growth with the same 100 people? And that's because there is enough to be consumed. Now, you will switch from productivity to new products and new services. And therefore, I was talking about this digital nurse versus there. Right. versus a nurse. I mean, develop another company we're working with, learning company to create an AI tutor. Our AI tutor is a... alternate Liverpool, which doesn't exist today. I mean, I don't have a personalized tutor for every person on the planet. We haven't touched material sciences. We haven't touched life sciences, which are untapped by human endeavors. There are things which we could potentially get to. Now, once we get to that point, what is the next endeavor? Well, I mean, that's, you know, that's another leap to think about. But I feel like there are so many things the human endeavor has still not got to, even if the technology advances. I still believe there is tons of stuff to do. I agree with that. My, I just, can, can be, every quote unquote, average person contribute to the frontier of the human endeavor, is, is the thing that seems, like, probably not to me. Can the exceptional people who are today exceptional continue to be exceptional? They'll still find the opportunity. So you believe it's going to be worse than today, then. In a way, because I think the previous... In terms of inequality quite plausibly. I mean, it is possible. That why we're talking about universal basic income. I'm talking about taxing capital. which is no different to you, you know, it was a basic term. It's a little... non-capitalistic in style. But I equally believe we also didn't. People dwell on, in spite of everything the future and the past technologies should have done. We haven't built it to a a more shared prosperity for the world. I mean, that different technologies have created a divide versus bridging the divide. They haven't, I mean, the people who had the skills really made made it. One of the reasons why most countries in the world today have a nationalistic electric government. is also because digital technology is very proper. I mean, it's also because globalization, they all believe that globalization hasn't given them the... Yeah, the feats they were promised or whatever. Yeah, I mean, that's how to see it. Yeah. And to some extent, that disparity, there is a constituent of the world which sees it that way. Um, I mean, I mean, it's, you know, this is very provocative. to think what it is. I'm thinking the next 20, 30 years. Yeah. I also think this is the short term is going to be... It's going to be more than what we think and the long term is going to be less than what we think. Have you been surprised by the rate of progress just in the last three, let's say, 3 years, compared to 2023. I got surprised by the advances of the models. I'm surprised by I mean, 2023 was different, 2024. I think 2025 was a seminal point. I think it moved. The needle moved fast. 2026, what I'm surprised with is the pace at which Enterprises are wanting to adopt it. Um, I mean, look, 2025, all of this was about to come. I mean, the security thing which came this way last week. If you if you go through it, it doesn't look very unreal anymore. It's increasingly hard to deny. It gives me a heart and light. But still deny, but it's, like, just, yeah. But the question is, now, there is more thought about how do I apply it? Sure. Remember, there's one other problem with tropics revenue is tripling every, like, couple weeks or months, which is... But the question is, if that doesn't drift to enterprises, it doesn't drift to economy growth. It would automatically stop. Will it, will the labs just keep, it'll drift to the labs? Like they just accrue more and more. But, and all that, you know, everyone in that side. And there is, you know, it has to drift to economic value. If it's not drifting back to the economy in some form, in some form of output, but you have the capability on one side. Yeah. And remember, the capability is being built with a short runway. Because the scaling laws are 6 months now. Right. It used to be 3 years, and the most law was 3 years, it's 6 months now. Yeah. So if you have spent, say, let's take all the all the big tech companies, they're spent a $1000000000 in the last 12 months. Yeah. If you take a strike rate of 10%, They have to create multi-trillion dollars in businesses. Yeah. If it is $100000000000 in businesses, The GDP growth of the world should have been at least 50 basis points more. So far. So far, it's not, it's flat. Right, but it might just because the market is underreacting to the radicalism of what's coming. So the only little bit AI has contributed to the GDP, he's only the data center growth. Yeah, yeah. No, for sure. 60% of the AI contribution to GDP is only data centers, which is the physical world. Yeah. So, the point I'm making is... But the ARR of these companies is radically increasing month a month. But it will plateau if it doesn't flow back into the real world. Yeah. It has to flow into the real world. Now, how would it float the real world? Portions of it is bureaucracy, but portions of it is complexity of enterprise. Sure, and true enterprises as well. Yeah, yeah. I mean, no, if you flip the mark, if you look at the 2 big companies, open AI is 70%, BTC, 30%. Yeah. Anthropic is the other way out. Yeah, more less. And look, they all add up everything, right? There's computer sitting in there. There is LLM stuff sitting in there. There's cloud infrastructure sitting in there, there's everything is packaged there and everybody's counting it by the way. Yeah. So I have triple counting out. Yeah, everybody's coming. And that's why I keep saying the infrastructure stack. I think is ready. Right. The businesses, the economy, the human endeavor, All of that has to be pivoted. And if we believe that all of this is going to accrue, who's going to fund it? Yeah, yeah. Well, like soft back, I guess. Hold on. Yeah, I know, this is the case, but well, because I guess my thing is even if the bubble, as it were, pops, which seems likely, like maybe this happens. So the infrastructure still exists, and the technological capacity still exists. So even if trillions of dollars evaporate in value, and the revolution is, like, forced... The capability was... industrial bubble. not a financial bubble. Look, it's an industrial bubble. Industrial bubbles always leave meaningful things for the next generation. But when you talk about the scaling, it's all because the other thing that scaling is the efficiency, right? So for a given amount of compute, it's like 3 X year on year, you know? We need 3 X, LS compute to achieve the same outcome. That's epox estimate. 3 or 4 X. That's correct. Yeah, so like, I don't know. It's hard to see the world, but we don't get the, you know? So I, you know, you know, I think all of us have to start to reflect on saying, what is the economic value coming out of this? You can have extraordinary capability. But it has to lead to longevity in lives. It has to lead to shared prosperity. But what if it doesn't, though? If it doesn't, then we're in a doomsday situation. Yeah, exactly. Just the feeling. Like, you know, the point the point is, tell me one thing. When have we ever had an extraordinary technology? And we are more worried, and less optimistic. I mean, when digital technologies came, we were like, wow, this is like, world is going to be different. We are all feeling good about it. Half of us are nervous in our professional lives. And we're super excited in our personal lives. That's the state we are in. And that is because we're all envisaging what you're saying. I mean, and I think we will be in a better place if we choose how to how to pivot this to the future. Yeah. I mean, How much have you seen today? I mean, I've seen some of it on diagnostics in medical sciences. I've seen some of it. I seen even cancer treatments on diagnostic. I'm not seeing somebody telling me that we've cracked the code on drug development cycles. Yeah. If we don't pivot that and we prefer to knowledge work jobs, Who's going to feed the animal here? How is this going to, how is the flight wheel going to be created? I mean, there has to be a flight deal. Without an economic fly wheel. What are we doing this for? Right? So, because we love to fly close to the sun. That's why, ultimately, you speak to the engineers, you know, they'll tell you, yeah, I cancer, my mother might get sick. But when you push them, they don't care about cancer. You care about making the thing better. They love to solve problems. They're engineers, you know? That's true, but I'm just saying that this will get to a natural. I mean, this will get to a natural endpoint where you start, you stop feeding the beast, because you don't have enough to feed the beast. And you can have enough to feed the beast, provided you build a, a world which is much more prosperous, more for people to deal with. You live in the era of abundance and therefore you're feeding the beast and actually creating more of that. That is the end. Do you feel like we were close to that in Q4 of last year when there was some real concern from capital, about the size of the investments in AI? So you know, there are 3 or 4 things which are important in a bubble, over investment. Uh, over leverage, over um, uh, over concentration. Or over ownership. I mean, so far, the money was actually from the operating cash of companies. So there was no leverage. There is over investment. There is over ownership. is concentration with one or two, 3 players. Um, Remember, interest rates were haven't moved so much. If interest rates start to go up, Any of these 4 things will start to burst. Going back to what you said, this is not a financial problem. This is an industrial bubble. It is okay to have an industrial bubble. It will burst. What will happen? It's not necessary that the same players will win. I mean, when the biotechnology bubble happened, all of them went burst. But it left great, you know, life-saving drugs for the future. So, I mean, this is not like a housing crisis or a, I mean, look, when the dot com 1st happened, a part of it was a financial bubble, but it was also an industrial bubble. The undersea cabling, which was set then. actually is running the world today. So there is a portion of introducing industrial bubble. The next set of companies which were born, I mean, let's say, I'll ask you, tell me which was the most popular search engine in the 90s. Early 90s. Early '90s was probably AOL or Yahoo. Yeah. No, I did it was something else. Oh... Oh, is it us Jeeves? Um... I think it might have been last time. I forget the name. It's a very unusual name. But we don't remember because the next set of search engines. Yeah. which Google made kind of made it. So, I mean, this is the industrial bubble. You know, you're right. It'll leave extraordinary capability in our hands. But it's too early to know if it's over investment on your... I don't think it's over investment yet. Yeah, because only 2 companies are over leveraging it. But also if it delivers the value, if it, then it won't turn in retrospect, we won't say it was over investment, right? If anthropics tripling of revenue every like 3 months or whatever it is, if this just continues and continues, you know, it went from 10 billion at the end of 2025. Now it's at, like, 30 bill in ARR. If it gets to 90 and then whatever, then in retrospect, we won't say this was over investment. We'll say, oh, they made true investments, and now look at them. They have, you know, more money than God. Yeah. So, so, so I think you're right actually. I mean, look, over investment is a reference point. Sure. This is exactly my thing. is like, what is the right, and I'm curious where you calibrated on this. Like, what's the right reference point for the technology? Like, because I think a lot of people are like, yes, we get it, AI is disruptive, like how the internet is disrupted. And I think, no, it's, like, much more so than that. Or even then, like the phone is or digital technology in general. And this is a very radical thing that, no, it's really more fundamental. I think, I forget, it's either Sundo or Satya, that says, like, you know, it's, like, on the level of, like, electricity itself, or, like, even fire, if you want to be really dramatic. Like, this is not the same as... Yeah, but if you if you kind of... Yeah, if you draw the parallels with electricity, then you always want to say that somebody else is going to make the money and not them. Right. Well, the way this is, like, I think... I understand the financial regions, but like Core weave, you know, Core weave is one of those companies that will be holding the bag. Like, if things pop, they've structured it so that other money will be lost, but not all by them. People will be hurt. So, so look. If infrastructure is gonna drive future economic value, right? Then the economic models are out of VAC. Infrastructure is always driven a, driven a layered value process. I mean, uh, You know, the super innovation cycles, which have always happened, have always happened on a 3rd order or the 4th order. I mean, Coca-Cola made more money than refrigerators, refrigerator, made more money than the electric companies. But the question now is, like, is open AI both the revergerator and the Coca-Cola? Like, they both the infrastructure and the product. Yeah, but the infrastructure. So that's the point. Open AI is not saying they want to compete with Target and Walmart. Yeah. They're saying we will enable target in Walmart to be better companies. So finally, Targeted Walmart have to actually generate value through AI, which then means they become a utility company. Yeah. Look, we're also not talking about we are also not seeing the out of the possibilities on how much this is going to become a commoditized game. Yeah, that's true. I mean, India is putting up an LLM, which is like a, uh, I actually saw Sarvam AI. Yeah. I mean, they're not bad. And, and, you know, what is the valuation? .5 billion? Yeah. They're raising funds for $15000000 dollars. And I just don't understand why everyone would use that, though, because surely the open source frontier is what matters. I mean, they're behind on that. Yeah, so the open source frontiers is now a combination of open weights and open source because... The open wavefront, yeah. Yep, open weight frontiers. So in this case, not just, unlike software, which was open sourced, it was good enough. Here, you need to train it. You need to pre-train it. I mean, we are not talking about what throwway prices China is going to build this. The quid models are very good at this point. So exceptional. If that if that happens, then how much value are you going to give it to the infrastructure, to the end, to the enduse? And the, uh, and the creativity you deliver on the end use versus, uh, what's this? I mean, it's layered all the way from the chips to the cloud infrastructure, to the LLM infrastructure, to the applications. So do you think SARVOM is undervalued? Is... I don't know. I mean, look, if I, if I, if I, if I think about it, inference is still under investment, uh, I kind of feel like computers probably under invested. I think pre-training is overivested. Yeah. But it's the same. I'm not sure how different the infrastructure is, where you're doing the pretraining bus, the inference. There might be differences on the chip level or something, but broadly, it's the same kind of thing. From what I understand. So, look, you know, it's a... It's very hard to comprehend nonlinearity, right? This is the real problem, yeah. It's very hard to comprehend. I mean, we went through this in our own, in our lives with COVID. We completely underestimated the nonlinearity of what it can do, and therefore we couldn't plan. But this is in our hands, and that's why I'm so glad that we're doing the debate in the discussion to pivot this. And we critiquing it in a way that we construct, we create more constructive ways to get past it. But I can also tell you that if it doesn't create a fly wheel of economic value, and if you think the capabilities out there, and therefore, we're all doomed. I think we're going to get to a doomsday situation if we believe it believed to pivot it in that direction. If you kind of reoriented to a different. I'll tell you, I'll tell you one other interesting example. Last year, mid of last year, there was a lot of discussion about Early careers are out of the window. Right. And, I mean, it looks logical, because I think areas, people do the more grunt repeatable work. So they're all gone. I wonder if only there is out of the window, where's the feeder to the... Yeah, to the middle. To the middle. And I flipped that model. I thought about it more creatively. I wrote something that I said I put in practice. Last year we had 20,000 school graduates under that school. This year we had 25,000 the year before we did 12,000. And we said, you know, the thesis is right that you could take the jobs at the bottom out. There's a counter thesis to it. If I feed this intelligence more to the bottom, I get more output at lower cost. Yeah. And this is, So as I started to do that, I figured out that they don't even have muscle memory of doing it in the old way. So they were more efficient and effective doing it the new web. And here we are. I'm suddenly trying to tell my investor community, my, you know, all the constituents that, you know what? I'm going to have more school graduates. It looked so different when 6 months ago when we started this processing, oh, we don't need, we only need the middle. I mean, if everybody needs the middle house, But then this became my value proposition. And If everybody doesn't see it that way, I think we can get to that point where everybody says, I'm going to use this to eliminate the bottom versus I'm going to use this to create more throughput at the bottom. So you compete with people who don't do that, presumably, because now you have more intelligence and through good in your company. Correct. And I have it in a lower cost. So I'm actually more viable as a model than others. Um, But the mainstream thinking is not that. Sure. So, I guess it also depends on how you want to orient this, and sometimes governments have to play a role. Look, that's the thing. You said that, you know, we have to pivot, and I, the whole time, I'm wondering, like, but who is the, the problem is the we doesn't have to one voice. There's no singular we, you know? It's one of you. So, look at all... Yeah, so look at it this way. We all lived in an era where we needed governments in our lifetime, in the first 25 years of our life, and then maybe the last 20 years for life. So, the entire government missionary has been built that way. So there are public schools and they put money on it, there is retireal funds and everything yet. Medical care and all of it. The government think we don't need them in the middle. So they collect money from us in the middle, so that they can serve the ends. That model is out of the window. Their constituents, the citizens, they need help in the middle, because the change is happening in the middle. And they need support in the middle. They need that anchor bridge in the middle. So governments have to start to rethink this. And if at all there was ever a need of a global consumption of countries coming together, it was now. And we don't have one now. I mean, I'm on the chamber, board of the chamber, US Chamber. Look at this technology, the technology is an enabler, and you have to enable it and control it. And the 2 opposite themes. Why do you want to control it? Because it can go rogue. But why do you want to enable it? Because China can actually enable it faster. Now, there is no other way. I mean, that's how we solve the nuclear problem. Interestingly, nuclear technologies are the most the safest technologies. I come from a nuclear engineering background. They're the safest technologies. But the world was so paranoid. that we thanked the entire world on nuclear technology. We went berserk by bringing the world together and saying anybody who's not, who is not cooperating with us. will not be a part of this consumption. And here we are fast forward now saying, let's go back to nuclear technology. I don't know you saw what India did last week. They did a fast breeder, new technology, and they've been working on it for like 60 years. So fast-pated new technologies are. You put uranium fuel into the reactor. You get energy. You get more uranium. So it's a breeder. Right. So the more you put nuclear fuel into the energy, the more fuel you get. You get that and put it back in there, you get more of it. So they've created this loop and they've been trying for this loop for 70 years. I was a part of that program 30 years ago, and I felt like this is ridiculous. These guys are working for so long and now they've got ready and the Prime Minister tweeted it last week. Only 2 countries can do that. Now, you think about it, you just have to burn fuel, to get more energy. You get more fuel. So essentially what they're doing is, they're taking this and take, so, uranium is 230. So anything which is an odd number in chemical engineering is facile material. So 235 is facile material. 238 is not 236 is not. So when 235 burns, they fed out a way to release a neutron, to take the non, the non-ficile material to also become facile, something like that. So they've created a aspirator mechanism. But, For 50 years, the world suppressed the whole thing. Because they felt like we'll be in a better world. Not breeding nuclear technology because it's very dangerous. I mean, we have to do the same. I mean, if you ask me, it's an enabler and a controller. You enable and control it. And that's the reason why it's complex. Yeah. And any general purpose technology is, is you have to do both. I mean, it's a fascinating science. Yeah. We're mostly not doing it, because the fun thing is, it is kind, it's very much like nuclear. If the nuclear weapons, like, could talk and unionize, I have feelings. Or at least just, you know, perform the cyber trauma feelings, which they do. You know, you ask Claude, how does he feel? He'll tell you, like, whatever, complex interior. That's why I care about the micro, the personal side. You know, other people are caring about the labor. clearly I care about everything, but... No, I mean, what you picked up is true. Do you travel to San Francisco? Yeah, sometimes. So, I have 70 researchers. They're better than me. I mean, I'm a business guy. This is my interest, so I keep doing this. I would rather do this if I, you know, money in the bank. I would do this for time. I will show you how. I don't know how much we have, but I will I'm looking at this office. But there's 70 researchers, you will thoroughly enjoy it. These are, so I've not told them to commercialize anything. I've just said take the drop out of this technology. and figure out a way to make it enterprise great. So there's a PhD is, we have a labs, it's run by, it is such a, The research we do is very different to the result of the beta card, too. They do to increase the capability. Yeah, we do to... to feed it into the enterprise. we do context engineering, we build guardrails. In fact, we build one alternative to reinforcement learning. We have this accuracy of the models. We do things like that. How do you how do you create a verification economy? around it? I mean we feel like that's a big opportunity. Yeah. I mean, cybersecurity, what was cybersecurity 20 years ago? The verification economy on AI is going to be now because everything they do, you have to verify and validate and authenticate. So, You will like that. I mean, it's a, it's a set of people who have the same, I mean, thinking, and you, you, you, all, all your, all of what you're asking are absolute, valid points. I mean, there is If I had all the answers, then I would have been like a genius. I think just getting the right question is, I mean, it's a good start, for sure. But look, that's the human endeavor as well. Getting the right questions. you know, finding the next purposeful problem. is, is, I mean, problem solving is no longer a human endeavor. Finding the next problem is a human endeavor. Yeah I think that's right. And partnering with machines to solve problems is a human endeavor. But finding the next purposeful problem, I just still don't believe that in this age, The way we do cancer treatment. I mean, if you just understand the science of brain cancer equipment today. It's bizarre. It's Stone Age, right? You basically take radiation and bombard it on people's bodies where that stuff is. Yeah. And then you hope it doesn't come back again. Yes, meemo. And hope you don't do too much damage. No. To answer that. We don't do too much damage. That hasn't changed. Why is it the world focusing on it? Catch the code on. Crack the code on the multiplication, which happens inside. And stop it. I mean, there are things which we are doing, but it's not at the same pace, at which this technology is moving. So, The pivot to life sciences, material sciences, prefer to material science. We have not cracked the code on material sciences. Why would we do that? Right. I actually believe those are the things we should work on. I mean, that's why I was excited about the fast breeder reactor because Right. No, I'm excited about this too, but there's no top-down allocation of what we work on as the problem, right? It's bottom of actors following incentives. The incentives are to automate labor, and to make the machines smaller to automate more labor. That's what open AI are doing. The incentive is also to say we care about cancer, so they say we care about cancer. They all say that they're on doing enough on that. No, exactly. That what I'm saying. It cheap. to biotics, then, to do the actual thing underneath the optics. I mean, and that's why I also believe they will not be in this fly wheel of value. At some point of time, it will break because if you don't get onto the flight wheel of value, you are going to start to say, Who's going to feed me? So, I mean, if you don't have the, if you don't have the feed of mechanism to this, I mean, there is still energy is expensive. Compute is expensive. All the layers are super expensive. And you're basically saying, I mean, everything else is inconsequential. As long as there's capability here, everybody will be looking good. Um, I mean, that's, uh, That's it, really bizastic to be in. Yeah. Every day, I struggle to comprehend the wealth, you're a limit. And I'm very suspicious of anyone who tells me it's normal, it makes sense, 'cause it does not. It doesn't make, you know, we do it again.
